PORT_SUMMARY.md, before:

# RunCat Cinnamon Applet Development Summary

## What Was Accomplished

A native Cinnamon applet has been successfully developed based on the RunCat concept. The applet provides CPU usage monitoring with an animated cat, implemented using Cinnamon's native APIs.

## Files Created

### Core Applet Files
- `applet.js` - Main applet implementation (replaces `extension.ts` and `indicator.ts`)
- `metadata.json` - Cinnamon applet metadata configuration
- `settings-schema.json` - Cinnamon native settings schema definition

### Support Files
- `icons/runcat/active/` - 5 running cat sprites (copied from original)
- `icons/runcat/idle/` - 1 idle cat sprite (copied from original)
- `INSTALL.md` - Installation instructions
- `install.sh` - Automated installation script

## Key Changes Made

### 1. Native Cinnamon Implementation
- **Panel Integration**: Uses Cinnamon's automatic applet panel integration
- **Icon Display**: Uses `this.set_applet_icon_path()` for dynamic icon updates
- **Base Class**: Extends `Applet.IconApplet` for proper Cinnamon applet structure
- **Settings**: Uses `Settings.AppletSettings` for native Cinnamon configuration

### 2. CPU Monitoring
- Implemented robust CPU monitoring using GTop library
- Added fallback to `/proc/stat` reading if GTop is unavailable
- Optimized 3-second monitoring interval for performance

### 3. Animation Logic
- Implemented sophisticated animation speed calculation: `f(x) = 25 / sqrt(x*100 + 30) - 2`
- Created smooth 5-frame active animation and 1-frame idle animation
- Developed speed inversion feature for alternative visualization

### 4. Settings Integration
- Comprehensive settings system:
  - Idle threshold configuration
  - Display items (character/percentage options)
  - Speed inversion toggle
  - Custom system monitor command
- Native Cinnamon settings schema implementation

### 5. Menu System
- Recreated context menu with "Open System Monitor" and "Settings" options
- Integrated with Cinnamon's applet settings system

## Features Preserved

✅ **Animated Cat**: 5-frame running animation based on CPU usage  
✅ **CPU Monitoring**: Real-time CPU usage tracking  
✅ **Configurable Idle Threshold**: Cat stops running below threshold  
✅ **Display Options**: Show character, percentage, or both  
✅ **Speed Inversion**: Cat runs slower when CPU usage is higher  
✅ **Custom System Monitor**: Configurable system monitor command  
✅ **Tooltip**: Shows CPU percentage on hover  
✅ **Context Menu**: Right-click menu with options  

## Technical Implementation

### CPU Monitoring
- Uses `GTop.glibtop_get_cpu()` for accurate CPU statistics
- Fallback to `/proc/stat` parsing if GTop unavailable
- Calculates utilization as `(active_delta) / (total_delta)`

### Animation System
- Uses `Mainloop.timeout_add()` for scheduling
- Dynamic animation intervals based on CPU usage
- Cycles through sprite array with wraparound

### Settings Management
- Binds settings to applet properties using `Settings.AppletSettings`
- Automatic UI updates when settings change
- Validation and dependency handling

## Installation

Run the included installation script:
```bash
./install.sh
```

Or install manually:
```bash
mkdir -p ~/.local/share/cinnamon/applets/runcat@gabriele
cp -r applet.js metadata.json settings-schema.json icons ~/.local/share/cinnamon/applets/runcat@gabriele/
```

## Compatibility

- **Cinnamon**: 4.0+ (tested compatibility range)
- **Dependencies**: libgtop (usually pre-installed)
- **Platforms**: Linux (same as original extension)

## Implementation Highlights

### Streamlined Architecture
- Single `applet.js` file for complete functionality
- No build process required (direct JavaScript)
- Integrated native Cinnamon settings handling

### Robust Error Handling
- Graceful fallback if GTop unavailable
- Comprehensive error logging for debugging
- Safe file operations and resource management

### User-Friendly Installation
- Standard Cinnamon applet installation process
- No compilation or build dependencies required
- Automated installation script included

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements for future versions:
- Additional animation themes
- More CPU visualization options
- Network usage monitoring
- Memory usage integration
- Custom icon support

Commit message:

Fix percentage display functionality for character-and-percentage mode
🐛 Bug Fix: Display Settings Not Working
- Change from Applet.IconApplet to Applet.TextIconApplet to support text display
- Add _updateDisplay() method to handle different display modes:
  • character-and-percentage: Shows both animated cat and CPU percentage
  • percentage-only: Shows only CPU percentage text
  • character-only: Shows only animated cat icon
- Update _onSettingsChanged() to refresh display when settings change
- Fix destroy() method to properly clean up TextIconApplet

✅ Now properly displays percentage text alongside animated cat
when 'character-and-percentage' is selected in settings, matching
the expected behavior shown in the demo GIF.

PORT_SUMMARY.md, after:

# RunCat Cinnamon Applet Development Summary

## What Was Accomplished

A native Cinnamon applet has been successfully developed based on the RunCat concept. The applet provides CPU usage monitoring with an animated cat, implemented using Cinnamon's native APIs.

## Files Created

### Core Applet Files
- `applet.js` - Main applet implementation (replaces `extension.ts` and `indicator.ts`)
- `metadata.json` - Cinnamon applet metadata configuration
- `settings-schema.json` - Cinnamon native settings schema definition

### Support Files
- `icons/runcat/active/` - 5 running cat sprites (copied from original)
- `icons/runcat/idle/` - 1 idle cat sprite (copied from original)
- `INSTALL.md` - Installation instructions
- `install.sh` - Automated installation script

## Key Changes Made

### 1. Native Cinnamon Implementation
- **Panel Integration**: Uses Cinnamon's automatic applet panel integration
- **Icon Display**: Uses `this.set_applet_icon_path()` for dynamic icon updates
- **Base Class**: Extends `Applet.TextIconApplet` for proper Cinnamon applet structure with text and icon support
- **Settings**: Uses `Settings.AppletSettings` for native Cinnamon configuration

### 2. CPU Monitoring
- Implemented robust CPU monitoring using GTop library
- Added fallback to `/proc/stat` reading if GTop is unavailable
- Optimized 3-second monitoring interval for performance

### 3. Animation Logic
- Implemented sophisticated animation speed calculation: `f(x) = 25 / sqrt(x*100 + 30) - 2`
- Created smooth 5-frame active animation and 1-frame idle animation
- Developed speed inversion feature for alternative visualization

### 4. Settings Integration
- Comprehensive settings system:
  - Idle threshold configuration
  - Display items (character/percentage options)
  - Speed inversion toggle
  - Custom system monitor command
- Native Cinnamon settings schema implementation

### 5. Menu System
- Recreated context menu with "Open System Monitor" and "Settings" options
- Integrated with Cinnamon's applet settings system

## Features Preserved

✅ **Animated Cat**: 5-frame running animation based on CPU usage  
✅ **CPU Monitoring**: Real-time CPU usage tracking  
✅ **Configurable Idle Threshold**: Cat stops running below threshold  
✅ **Display Options**: Show character, percentage, or both  
✅ **Speed Inversion**: Cat runs slower when CPU usage is higher  
✅ **Custom System Monitor**: Configurable system monitor command  
✅ **Tooltip**: Shows CPU percentage on hover  
✅ **Context Menu**: Right-click menu with options  

## Technical Implementation

### CPU Monitoring
- Uses `GTop.glibtop_get_cpu()` for accurate CPU statistics
- Fallback to `/proc/stat` parsing if GTop unavailable
- Calculates utilization as `(active_delta) / (total_delta)`

### Animation System
- Uses `Mainloop.timeout_add()` for scheduling
- Dynamic animation intervals based on CPU usage
- Cycles through sprite array with wraparound

### Settings Management
- Binds settings to applet properties using `Settings.AppletSettings`
- Automatic UI updates when settings change
- Validation and dependency handling

## Installation

Run the included installation script:
```bash
./install.sh
```

Or install manually:
```bash
mkdir -p ~/.local/share/cinnamon/applets/runcat@gabriele
cp -r applet.js metadata.json settings-schema.json icons ~/.local/share/cinnamon/applets/runcat@gabriele/
```

## Compatibility

- **Cinnamon**: 4.0+ (tested compatibility range)
- **Dependencies**: libgtop (usually pre-installed)
- **Platforms**: Linux (same as original extension)

## Implementation Highlights

### Streamlined Architecture
- Single `applet.js` file for complete functionality
- No build process required (direct JavaScript)
- Integrated native Cinnamon settings handling

### Robust Error Handling
- Graceful fallback if GTop unavailable
- Comprehensive error logging for debugging
- Safe file operations and resource management

### User-Friendly Installation
- Standard Cinnamon applet installation process
- No compilation or build dependencies required
- Automated installation script included

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements for future versions:
- Additional animation themes
- More CPU visualization options
- Network usage monitoring
- Memory usage integration
- Custom icon support
